After letting Dominic Toretto escape from the
authorities, former LAPD officer Brian O'Conner
flees from Los Angeles to escape prosecution.
He subsequently relocates to Miami and makes a
living participating in illegal street races,
driving a heavily modified silver Nissan
Skyline GT-R R34. The races are organized
by his local mechanic friend Tej Parker.
After winning a race against drivers including
Suki, the police show up and Brian is arrested.
He is taken into custody, but given a deal by his
former boss FBI Agent Bilkins and U.S. Customs
Agent Markham to go undercover and bring down
Argentinian drug lord Carter Verone in exchange
for clearance of his criminal record. Agent Monica
Fuentes, who has been undercover with Verone for
a year, agrees to assist bringing Brian into the
organization. Brian agrees on the condition that
he is given permission to choose his own partner.
This prompts Brian to travel to Barstow, where
he enlists the help of childhood friend Roman
Pearce, who served jail time for housing stolen
cars in a garage and currently makes a living as
a demolition derby driver. Roman, currently on
parole, gets into a brief fight and blames Brian
for his arrest, but reluctantly agrees to help
in exchange for the same deal Brian was offered.
For their mission they are issued two confiscated,
modified cars—a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution VII
and a Mitsubishi Eclipse Spyder GTS. Roman and
Brian are later hired by Verone, who tasks the
duo to compete against rival drivers to obtain
a package from a confiscated Ferrari located
in a lot. During the race, some of the hired
drivers crash while a few are injured by big rigs.
Markham, who mistakenly thinks that the duo is
trying to run away, follows them to the lot. The
police ambush spooks Roman, who shoots at Markham
to help maintain his cover. Roman later confronts
the agent for interfering with the mission. Brian
is able to salvage the situation, telling Bilkins
that Verone is allegedly aiming to launder his
money in Miami before escaping on his private jet.
Brian and Roman challenge a pair of muscle car
drivers they raced when competing for Verone's
hiring, for pink slips. Despite engine and power
output handicaps, they win the race and obtain
the rival cars—a 1969 Yenko Camaro SYC and a
1970 Dodge Challenger R/T. Roman later confronts
Brian about the constant threat of Verone's men;
however, they patch up their differences
and focus on completing the mission.
At the VIP section of a nightclub, Brian and Roman
witness Verone torturing MPD Detective Whitworth
into giving his men a window of opportunity
to make their getaway. The next morning,
Monica warns them that they will be killed
once the drop is made. Despite this,
Markham refuses to call off the job, claiming
that it is their one chance to catch Verone.
On the day of the mission, Brian and Roman begin
transporting duffel bags of Verone's money with
Verone's associates—Enrique and Roberto—riding
alongside to accompany them. Before the window
is set, Whitworth decides to call in the police to
move in for an arrest of the drivers of the cars
used by Brian and Roman. This results
in a high-speed chase across the city,
with Bilkins and U.S. Customs also tracking
them. The duo leads the police to a warehouse,
where a "scramble" by dozens of street racers
organized by Tej disorients the police. Following
the scramble, the police manage to pull over
the Evo and the Eclipse, only to find out that
they were driven by Tej and Suki. As it turns
out, the duo had switched cars and had escaped
in the two muscle cars they had won earlier.
As Brian approaches the destination point in
his Camaro, Enrique tells him to take the Tarpon
Point Marina exit, instead of heading to the
airfield. Meanwhile, Roman gets rid of Roberto by
using an improvised ejector seat in his Challenger
powered by nitrous oxide. At the airfield, Customs
agents have Verone's plane and convoy surrounded,
only to discover they have been duped into a
decoy maneuver while Verone is at a boatyard
several miles away. Verone reveals he knew Monica
was an undercover agent, and purposely gave her
wrong information on the destination point. When
Brian arrives at the Marina, Verone forces Monica
onto his private yacht and orders Enrique to
kill Brian. As Enrique prepares to kill him,
Brian's ejector seat fails, but Roman suddenly
appears and helps Brian to incapacitate Enrique.
Verone makes his escape, but Brian and
Roman use the Camaro to drive off a ramp,
crashing on top of the yacht. Brian shoots and
wounds Verone, who is then arrested by Monica.
Markham grants Brian and Roman full pardons,
and in return Roman turns over the second half of
Verone's money. The two agree to stay in Miami,
and Brian suggests opening a garage – funded by a
cut of Verone's money Roman kept for themselves.